So let me.
Show my screen.
Also this one.
So we'll wait for other
students. Join the class. I
mean an will it start in one
or two minutes?
I.
But Meanwhile, I'm happy to take
your questions. I mean anything
related to the course.
Uh.
Found this.
Cancel.
OK, so let's start a. We have 31
student in the class.
So I mean hopefully other
student can join.
Um?
First of all, I have some notes
for you, I mean.
Uh. This session is recorded.
I hope I'm another student
can see the recording.
So that a day.
Get these messages up. My first
note is about, uh, lab sections.
Uh, I was checking the lab video
recording of the lab sections. I
mean for the for this week for
last week. And, uh.
I'm afraid of there are
sometimes no students, sometimes
just one very, very few students
actually participate in the lab
sections and all.
Honestly, if I were you, I would
attend these lab sections an I
would try to ask for help.
In terms of programming in terms
of the I mean the lecture
assignment, how to solve the
problem of lecture assignments
and etc in the lab sections?
Basically, the lab instructors
are there to help you, but.
Unfortunately, when I check the
lab sections, I can see that I
mean they just wait there and
nobody actually show up. And
basically for instance, with
this week lab we have only the
recording for 8 minutes,
something like that or less than
10 minutes. Uh, because no
student actually showed up, and
although I mean the attendance
is not mandatory but.
When there's no student there.
I would suggest that I mean
everybody are happy with the
assignments, but based on the
feedback I received from you, it
seems that most of these will
need help. But they don't attend
the lab sections and ask for
help or ask for a guide about
doing the programming etc. So
this is my first note.
So I'm going to talk about this
more when I check our. I mean
your feedback on the course.
And, uh, right now I'm going to
explore your feedback about the
course. And one more thing about
the reading week. So next week
is the Reading week.
There is no class, but I will be
in the office hour, so I mean.
Tuesday, Thursday on 11:30. Up
until 12:30 I'm going to be in
the office, so I'm also I'm
going to practice some
questions or some. I mean, I
mean those sample exam
questions. Also, I will record
them so we can see them later.
So if you want to practice on
the exam, please attend the
office hours on Tuesday or
Thursday such that. I mean we
can practice.
If no students show up, so there
will be no practice on the exam,
so please attend.
So I have.
Yes, as I said, Kevin. Yes as I
said in the office hour, I am
going to practice on the sample
questions. Also, there's a
folder in the blackboard.
It's called a lec week seven. I can show you I put a lot of
stuff there. I I'm trying to put
more stuff so if you see my
screen now. Uh.
In the. In this folder reading
week. So if you
go there, I put.
Some  for instance, what we are going to practice in the
office hours. I created Cheat Sheets for numbering system is
just a document that helps you
to remind those important notes.
Uh, this one is empty. Right now
I'm going to, uh.
If I, if I find enough time, I'm
going to prepare a CHEAT SHEET
for logic gates as well.
Uh, and also I I'm going to
create a dummy exam just to
practice on the format of the
exam and how the exam gonna be
executed by. I mean take home
time exam and I I'm going to
upload some sample questions in
this folder. So, so I mean,
right now these are. I mean,
these things are not valid, but
I'm going to update these links
soon before the reading so that
you can have the chance to
practice on the exam questions,
yes? So I try to have a
look at this folder for
more material about exam
and I'm sample questions
in the exam and attach.
So now let's back
to doing this here.
Let's go back too.
Oh the survey. So as you can see
here 37 student participated in
this class. We have 100 about
120 student in the class, so I
wish I mean I leave it open. I
hope other student can
participate as well, but here is
the summary so far.
I can see that I mean most of
these students are, I mean,
awesome or so so very few
students just wanted student
bad. And we'll see that this one is student. Actually put a lot
of I mean comments against the
course. But seems.
I hope these people who put this
so so actually try. I mean to
come to this part.
Uh, what I can say is that I
mean after the reading week
we're going to. I mean,
explain some more complicated
things, but interesting, but
I mean complex things. So I
hope we can catch up with the
course material.
Ah, Luckily most of you thinks
that this course is worth taking
and based on these statistics
and most of you are OK with the
course work, some of you seems
that it's too much.
But what I can say is that even
still you think that there are
too much work coursework.
Believe me, I mean from my side
from my experience maybe I mean
four or five years later you'll
see that the coursework and
worth it for this course.
About the next assignment, most
of you are OK.
And about the lab programming
assignments, most of your OK.
Some of use too much.
And so if you say difficult.
For those that I mean, as I
said, they think that it is
difficult. I really suggest
you to attend the lab sections
because in the lab section the lab instructor can help you about
the programming issues even in
the office hour you can come
and then we can. It is called
pair programming. We can
program together.
But again. You are in
the computer science discipline.
You have to master programming
at least in one language. For
instance, C, Java, C, sharp. I
mean, it's kind of I mean
knowing the multiplication of
numbers in I mean primary
school. So. If you think
that programming is hard or
difficult for you, I mean at the
only the only solution for that
is practicing programming is not
a thing. That is, it is skill.
It's not anything that you
memorize or you just learn how
to solve the problem. You have
to practice. You have to do some
hands-on practice. That's why I
include the programming just to
at least motivate you to do
programming at first, if you're.
You have these experience, I
mean very early. You think that
is difficult, but later on you
see that that's very easy. So at
some point you have to do that.
I can promise that for those
that is difficult, the program
is are difficult. I mean after.
I mean, more time, more
practice. You can find it. OK,
really. But you have to start at
some point you know. For those
who think these are too much up.
As I said, the balance within
the workload within the labs
are different. For instance,
for the lab 05, the sign
magnitude the load was. I
mean a lot, but about the
next one which is for the
Reading Week is next week
about the Two's complement.
It is very easy and the
reason is that.
Sometimes the difficulty of the
developed program is depends on
that concept that we thought.
So for instance, the Two's
complement is a little bit
tricky. And little bit hard, but The thing is.
After you programming that
difficult or that tricky Pro, I
mean concept when you receive a
better solution, you can
understand why this is better or
why this is easier. So before
experiencing some hardship or
some, I mean difficulty, you
cannot appreciate the nice
property of a better solution.
That was, for instance in this.
If you compare the sign
magnitude and twos compliment.
I believe that you can
understand why this company
is much more easier than the
sign magnitude.
So I think.
Uh. Sometimes it is too much,
but it's worth it because then
the next assignment or the next
solution is much more easier.
About the uh.
I mean worth doing.
Luckily, most of your agree that
these are I mean good for
understanding the concepts and
also practicing your programming
skills about the marking most of
your happy. For those that are
not happy with the marking
Please communicate with the
lab instructors and also
with me so then we can
discuss, uh, why there's a
problem. I saw a lot of
comments about some marking
adjustments. I'll explain
them as soon.
But if there is a problem
with marking with the marker,
please communicate with me or
the lab instructor.
About GA's and tas.
I mean.
Statistic that most of your
satisfied and of your knew that
or not satisfied.
So we have to discuss this, so
please attend the Office Hour or
I mean send an email to me or
even in the discussion board you
can put why sometimes you are
not satisfied with the result of
the lab in structure or the
marker. So then we can fix that.
All about my teaching. Most of
your happy and needs to
improve. Uh, thank you for
those who put the comments,
I'm I'm going to. I mean,
briefly explore these
comments.
But there is only one person
that seems I cannot fix the
teachings and etc.
Um? I really, I mean any
any comment is welcome so but
believe me I try hard to improve
my teaching style.
So.
No, no I think.
Everybody, at least they. I
can try, so I don't know why
you saw from me that I cannot
fix it but but most of you are
happy. Thank you. God, thank
you so about your comments. I
read all your comments and
first of all thank you so much
for your great comments.
Most of you actually put a lot of good comments. Most all
of you. All of you are
actually put a good comments.
Last lecture, one of these
students, I forgot his name said
that the last question is always
the hard question. Now I can
understand. I mean, I can take
that as a compliment, meaning
that you couldn't find even one
critic from the course.
I'm just joking, but thank you
so much for those that will put
a comment. And, uh, let's. Let's
just briefly, I could summarize
the comments in this Excel
sheet. Those comments related to
the labs. And those comments
related to the lectures in terms
of the course delivery and the
assignments. And there are some
other issues such as Internet
that I hope now.
There is few problems with the
Internet. I tried to fix it very
soon last week and I hope.
The problem is solved now.
So. About the labs.
I. I agree, I agree that
I I I I was a little bit
perfectionist about the file
structure. An file naming.
Uh, so I agree some of you
suggest that. Let's adjust the
marking. Put less deduction if
there is a mistake with the.
I mean the file names or folder
structure. I'm going to adjust
that, so I'm just putting very
small part of the mark about the
folder structure and file
naming. But one thing remember?
If you will, I mean in future in
any organization you want to
work, there isn't a standard, so
you have to think about that
wherever you want to work or
wherever you want to submit
something. There is a standard
so you have to learn that you
have to follow the submission
standards. That's why we have a
submission part in any manner.
So I know that sometimes it is
not easy, but this is. This
gives you an idea that you have
to follow some standard for any
any type of submission.
But I agree that I mean too
much marketing for that it's
not a good thing.
Um?
Speak Harbor consider one thing.
Is that about the naming? Some
of you says that I'm in the
naming that I picked for this
submission. For instance comp 2.
650 Underline lab number on the
line you will ID is not easy, so
we could say that for instance,
Lab 6 Lab 7.
Uh, I can agree, but The thing
is that, uh, think of think
about this from the marker's
So if the marker wants to download all the submissions an
that TA or marker is from different courses, he may or she
may make a mistake based on the
name of the file. That's why we
said that this submission is for
discourse and for this
assignment and from this person.
Uh, but I think about it easier
finally before that too.
Um?
I'm feeling better.
So one thing is about the
confusion or vague explanation
about the manual.
Um?
I can agree because I designed
these lab manuals and last
semester, so I need your
feedback and also I need your I
mean any any issue? I mean I
gradually fix the parts that are
confusing or vague or etc.
So that's why I need your
feedback. Sometimes I put a
comment and then in the next
revision of the manual I fixed
that part as well.
But one thing is that you have
the option in the discussion,
but as Southeast student did, so
they put a question in the
discussion board and I tried to
answer right away just to fix
the confusion. Also, in the lab
section you can attend the lab
Section 2 in order to discuss
the confusion or any issue.
But yes, I mean, send your
feedback and then I. I mean,
gradually I fixed the. So I
mean the manner.
About the putting more detail,
one thing is that right now for
each manual we have two to three
pages of the manner.
So.
If I make it a 10 page
manual, it's kind of a tiring
for you. For each lab you
will read 10 pages of manual
to exactly know what to do.
So I have to find a trade off. I
mean I have to make it a little
bit and short and also I have to
explain those important points.
Another issue is that I I don't
want to limit your creativity,
so I don't want you to to ask
you to do exactly what is step
on how sometimes I I want to
explain how you what to do but
do not explain how because I
want to let you decide what is
the best way to do that. So
sometimes and some some vision.
I see that easy. I mean creative
idea. Sometimes I put the bonus.
Like for that idea and I
didn't expect that some
student can solve this
problem by this process,
new idea. So there's a
tradeoff here, but again,
whenever you see that
there's a confusion.
Send me feedback. I can correct
that part of the model.
But yes, I mean I think of it as
a balance between. If I put more
detail it limits your
creativity. If I put less
litter, I mean very very small
amount of details. There is a
huge amount of confusion, so I
have to find a balance.
Uh, but I promise that I
gradually fix these manuals
about the dependencies.
Honestly, I tried my best to
make them independent so such
that we will miss one lap. You
can do another lab as well, but
even in the topics there are
some dependencies. For instance,
if we don't know the I mean the
basis or the binary system, we
cannot do, for instance, whose
complements or sign magnitude,
arithmetic and etc.
So the dependency is because of
the dependence on the topics.
I tried to make them independent
but there my there is some very
small dependency.
Uh, and one thing.
I checked the labs and if you
miss one lab.
You are still able to do the
next lab, so it's not in a way
that if you miss one lab you are
not able to do other labs. So
although you have to do some
part of the previous lab, but
it's not that much. I mean you
have enough time to cover some
part of the last. I mean
previous lab. But
this is not mean.
Because the topics are
dependent on each other, I
cannot do anything about
that.
But I agree that the
dependency between labs are
not a good thing because
anymore for each lab must be
based on that lab. But on
that is on the previous labs.
Uh, about the more resource
helping resource an etc. As I
said, please attend the lab
sections. The lab researchers
are actually they are paying at
the arcade or helping you. It is
an ask for any help.
So.
Uh, about the hardship and
etc I already explained.
Um, how about the reading week?
One thing is that I already
received some marks that in the
reading with the the students
wants to study for the exams in
term exam. So usually the
students prefer not to do a lot
of work in the reading. That's
why they asked us not to put any
deadline on the reading.
So, um.
Is student asked me to put the
those? I'm in labs that are
harder in the reading week,
but I mean I mean most of this
one do not like that because
they want to have free time to
other rest after the seven
weeks of study or to practice
on the mid term exams. So
that's why I put a minimum
amount of load in the reading.
And the connection between the
labs and lecture topics. I think
there is a huge connection
between the lab program is.
And even as silly, if you
think that if you do
programming that are not
related to the lecture
topics, reach out to me and
I will explain that this
program helps you to
understand what topics of
the math I mean lectures.
Uh, in general, uh?
I tried to address these
comments to the best about
the lectures on.
True, I mean in in our lectures
because I have a lot of material
to cover, I try to, I mean cover
them in one session and
sometimes it is very fast and it
needs a break. I'm kind of, I
mean one to two minutes
bracketing the topics I I tried
to do that. Thank you for the
feedback about the overview.
Correct, I can access. Yes, I
agree. I mean, I have to put the
whole road map 1st and then.
Explain well passing what part
of the road?
And why? I agree, I fixed my
slides in that respect.
About the answers of I'm I'm
releasing the answer or the keys
to the exercises or the lecture
assignments, but The thing is
that I cannot release it on the
when we release them Mark
because there are some student
that they ask for extension
because of some eligible
reasons, so I have to wait for
them to submit and then we mark
them and then release the key.
That's why there is a two weeks
gap between. They're releasing
the keys and the reason the
marks. So, but I'm going to
release the keys I did for
the lab to lab three. Sorry
like 2 like 3 and etc. I'm
going to do that for the
other lecture assignments.
All about the PDF size, actually
two or three weeks ago I figured
this out. I didn't know that.
Yes, I tried to make the
PDF sizes small or
otherwise. I put the
PowerPoint file. I try to
make these files as well as
well. Thank you for this. I
didn't know that I I
figured myself I'm in two
or three weeks ago.
probably oh, this is a good comment.
The questions in the lecture
assignments are not synchronized
with the topics. Sometimes you
see the question that you don't
know the topic and then in the
class we explain that.
This is intentional because I
want you to have a look at the
questions 1st and then do your
search for instance on online
Internet or books.
And then you come to the class
and when you come to the class
I. I hope that when you see a
new word or a new topic that was
not the first time that you see
that one. Now that was the main
intention behind the fact that
you see the questions before the
lecture such that you have
enough time to do your own
search. For instance Boolean
algebra or algebraically
minimizes a. Minimizes circuit,
so I want you to do this search
on the on line and then when you
attend the class, I'm going to
explain that myself. So then you
have the opportunity to. I mean,
I've just so understanding with.
My, I mean teaching so that was
intentional, and one thing is
that I try to cover all the
topics in the assignments in the
lectures of a week such that
before the deadline of the
architecture assignment you can
answer all the questions.
Questions today is a Thursday.
I'm going to cover all the
topics in the lecture summary
for this week such that I mean
before the deadline, which is on
in two weeks. You are going to
solve the problems and submit
that. If you think that there is
a question that you want to
answer. But we didn't cover it
before the deadline. For
instance, one or two days before
the deadline and reach out to me
and send me that question. And
I'm telling you that I mean this
question is not covering the
matter and one more important
thing is that.
As I said in my first class.
Sometimes I don't have enough
time to cover some topics in the
lectures. Wednesday, as you can see in some later, Same is in the
first or second question. I
explain some new topics they
still that's intentional because
if you see the.
First paragraph, the lectures on
is the lecture assignments is
not. Only about practicing the
topics in the lectures well also
about a new topic that we
couldn't find any time for that
or we want you to investigate
about those topics. So there are
some new topics that we are
going. We are not going to cover
them in the lecture, but in the
question we explain about that
and then we leave it to you to
go and search your own I mean.
Understanding of the topic.
So all of these are
intentional, so an I think,
and I hope that you
understand the reason behind
them.
We don't want you just to listen
to our lecture and memorize the
slides. We want you to do the
research yourself. Explore
the book. Explore the online
websites to understand the
new topics to develop your
own reasoning.
And the last one is.
Uh.
So again, as I said, some new
topics is a.
Oh, one thing is that he still
says that. I mean sometimes the
assignments are not related to
the topics of the lecture.
If you see if you see that there
is a question that totally
unrelated to the course, just
send me the question number and
explain your reason. So maybe
there is. I mean mistake for
instance because I try to mix
the questions. Sometimes some
question. Actually I put by
mistake so I can fix that.
Yeah, I hope I could explain all
your comments. And you can see
the way I addressed your comment
after the reading week on my
slides on my lecture deliverance
an on the labs and.
Also, I can see your
participation in the lab
sections in the. I mean your
emails to me so that such that.
I mean we can.
Other better experience
in this class.
Any questions so far?
So I can see that I can't ask
already answered your question.
Um, Michael, you're not old, so
you can still there.
Thank you, will this change
affect previous grades? Um
Nathan, uh yes. If if you want.
If you see that there are some
deduction from your lab
assignments, just reach out to
me or the lab instructor and
explain and then we can fix your
marks. Yes, definitely. Yeah you
have the right to view or you
overview. Um, sorry to review.
To review your submissions, your
marks an if you provide the
reasons then we can. I mean
bring your I mean reduction back
to your mark. Yes, definitely
any any even after in the course
outline you said that after two
or three weeks you can ask for
review of your mark and then we
can discuss where you where. Did
you lose the mark?
And then, if you're right,
we can bring the deduction
back to you, yeah?
Any questions?
No questions.
So.
Are Tatiana raise an issue? A
problem in the slides, last
section? I just wanted to
quickly if he explained
that too.
About the distributive property
or the postulate.
Tetianna was correct. When you discuss the distributive
property, you have to check that
these two operators are
distributive over each other
from the left side or right
side, so. We can say that the  postulate distributivity
for the left side is holding
on a set for two operator. If
you can distribute, for
instance, if you have XYZ and
two operator, section sign and
dagger sign, you can say that
X the section sign is left
distributive over the dagger
sign. If this equation holds.
You could say that from the
right side, if this equation
holds from the right side, so X
distributed inside your over the
parentheses from the right side.
And one thing is that if.
The section sign that operated
that we want to see whether it
is distributed over the dagger
sign or not. If this operator is
commutative, it is also left and
right side distributive.
So this is the only condition
that the operator, the section
sign is communicated. Then we
can have left, distributive
and right distributed.
This is by the definition of
commutativity, so I fixed these
slides and I update this slide
in the blackboard and thank you
so much Tatyana for raising this
problem. And.
Another thing I want just want
to mention you I didn't solve
this, but maybe a good question
in your exam was this.
This one. This is an interesting
property of Boolean algebra.
Normally, when you say that 2
+ 5. Multiply by three.
In the in the setup
signed integer or real
numbers it is not equal
to distributing the
addition to
multiplication, so it is
not equal to 2 + 5.
Multiply by.
2 plus.
3.
However. Check this
in the Boolean algebra.
About the multiplication in the
sign integer, that's correct.
For instance, 2 multiplied by.
5 + 3.
This is equal to because
multiplication can be
distributed over the
addition, so it is equal to
two. We already know that to
multiply by 5 plus.
To multiply by.
UH-3
this is hard for the
multiplication over addition,
but addition over multiplication
is not distributive.
But in the Boolean algebra
checked out in the Boolean
Algebra 4 and and four.
Is or can distribute over the
and. Or is and can be
distributed over or or not. So
this is an interesting question.
You can practice on that, so
let's move on to the new stuff.
Any questions?
So. Why we learn?
The postulate other reason was
that we wanted to use them to
simplify a circuit.
So we take the first step and
we explained what is.
Boolean algebra.
And then we need
just this one.
We said that there are some
postulates and we introduced the
property of the password we
introduced formally what is.
Boolean algebra and then we said
that George Boole proposed the
Boolean algebra, but later
Huntington formalized in the
math. But The thing is that the
Boolean algebra the algebra
proposed by George Boole accept
a set more than two elements,
but the person who proposed the
actual Boolean logic that we are
using was a Shannon.
Who was proposed switching
algebra in his master studies?
Oh, and he selects zero and one
as the element of the set an and
then or as the operator of this
set. And he proved that this
algebra has the property of the
Boolean algebra. That's why we
use his algebra is a Boolean
algebra. We're using switching
algebra. So technically,
switching algebra is a Boolean
algebra the way we are using is
the switching algebra.
But what's the benefit? We
said that by using the
postulates and knowing the
switching algebra, we are
able to prove some theory.
And then when we can prove these
theories, we can use these
theories to simplify the 2nd.
So we are at the second step how
what? What are those here is and
how can we prove those theories
to use them for simplification?
So the first supposed to prove
his theory you already know how
to do that in the lecture
assignments you did that.
Basically when you want to prove
the equality within two
equation, we can create the
truth table. And then if for all
possibilities in the input, the
outputs are the same, then you
could say that these two
functions are equal.
If you could at least find one
row that are not equal in the
output for the same input, then
you could say that there is a
counterexample and because of
that the two functions are not.
Well, since the way you proves
exclusive or or something, other
equations are very you did using
the truth table.
What is another way to prove
them by using the postulate?
Postulate we don't prove them
themselves. We accept them as
true and then we use them to
prove other theories.
So here is an example.
We already knew that if you or
two binary variables it doesn't
have any, uh, I mean added value
because X or X is equal to X. Or
if you do that end times X or X
or X and etc. Basically if you
add to these equation more X or
them to disturb I'm into this
equation all are the same as X.
We already know that.
You could prove this by truth
table. But now we want to
see that how can we prove
this by customers? Because postulate sometimes easier
than the truth table.
For instance, if the truth, they
will have more than 3, four or
five input variables, the number
of rows are very huge, so you
have to check all these rows. It is difficult. That's why we
use the postulate sometimes. So
for this equation.
The proof is this.
Basically, you could say that
you could start from the left
side. You could say that X or X.
Is equal to X or X and with one.
Why? Because because of the
password for identity
elements of the plan and
which is one you can add any
binary variable with one.
Because anything is one is
itself. So this is by the
postulate. So you could, you
couldn't ask why we accept this,
but postulate identity.
And then. You can rewrite
one as the using the
postulate complement.
Because we are in the switching
algebra, we have the complement
property and the compliment
property says that.
Ordering any binary variable
with it complements enter with
the identity element of the Ant,
so ordering be complements of
the binary variables and with
the identity element of and,
which is 1.
Remember the compliment
property?
And now you can use the
distributive property.
Basically, you can extract X.
And if you extract X, it becomes
X or X an Explorer.
Based on the distributive
postulate of the searching
algebra. Because we know that
the air or is distributive over
an as I showed you. I mean
before, I mean in the early
slides you have, I asked you to
prove this at home so you can
see that it is correct or can be
distributed over and.
And then. X and Explorer.
This is the complement property,
but this time for end, so X and
explore become the identity
element of or.
Which is 0.
And then based on the identity
elements of the OR which is 0 by
the postulate identity, we know
that anything or with the
identity element of or.
Doesn't have any influence as it
becomes itself so X or zero
becomes X, so you see that we
start on the left side. We end
up with the right side X.
As a result, we can prove that X
or X is equal to X.
Yes, Nick exactly exactly this
is the way we prove a theory by
postulant you accept those postulate, you know that those
postulates are correct. You use them in order to come up with a
proof for new theories.
That's why we called these
theory. You have to prove
them. We called postulate it because they already we
accept them through.
The next example is this X or
with one is equal to 1. Again,
we already showed this. We
already use this a lot. Anything
or with one is equal to 1 in the
I showed you in the OR gate.
I said that if you have an or
gate with multiple input, if you
see one in one of the input, do
not look at others, simply
output one you have already used
that. Now you want to prove
that. Why this is this wasn't part of the postulate, so we have
to prove that. So the proof
is this, you start from the
left side and you have to
end up with the right side.
So you would say that.
It is very similar to any math
proof, so usually math proof
needs some genius, so I mean.
Smart, being smart and practice
a lot and know how what possible
to use when to use the past
little. It's a little bit
related to math proof.
So sometimes it is very hard.
Here X or one.
It is equal to again very
similar to the previous proof.
We can say that X or one and
with one. This one because of
the identity element of and
doesn't have any impact.
And then you can rewrite one
based on the complement
property. One is equal to X or
export because this is the
complement property for or.
Ordering a binary variable with
its complement is equal to
identity element of an.
And then you can use the
distributive property. You can
extract X. As you can see
here, this proof is very
similar to previous one.
Basically, the X becomes one
here. And then ending any binary
variable with one, because one
is the identity element of and
doesn't have any.
Uh, impact. So it becomes export
and X or export. This is the
complement property for over.
All with all of the binary
variable with its complement is
identity elements of an.
Which is 1.
So this is the proof for X or
one is equal to 1. And now we
know that that's why we used
that stretch that in and.
Or get if you have one. This
is the one in the input. You
output one directly.
Another theory is this called
absorption an. Why we call this
absorption there is on his desk.
Remember, you have to look at
the theory carefully.
If you have oring.
Ordering of some ands.
As you can see, it is very similar to SOP in SOP you
have some terms that are ending
with each other and then
altogether or. So here is
the same. We have some term
they are ending with them
with each other.
But we then we ordered
altogether. If you see such
expression. And one of the
binary variables are
replicating in all the
terms. As you can see here
X.
It means that you can simply say
that you can absorb all of the.
Turn 2X to the binary variable
that is repeated in all terms.
It's very, I mean a beautiful
theory, so X or XY because X
is happening in both terms, you
can simply absorb all of the
other terms to the binary
variable that is replicated in
all the terms.
So now we want to prove that.
So the proof is this.
You start from the
left side X or X&Y.
You see here.
The first term X can be rewrited
as this written by this X and
one because you can add anything
with one. Because of the
identity element of an.
And then you can extract X.
Because of the distributive
property of Andover, or if you
extract X, you're gonna have one
or Y in another term.
Anything at all with one. We
just proved the theory before,
so when we prove the theory
you're allowed to use that
because you already prove that
that's true. After that we can
use it, so you already proved
that anything or with one is
equal to 1.
So it becomes one and
anything and with one because
of the identity element of
the one becomes itself.
That's a proof for this theory.
Now that we we prove this
theory, this absorption theory
you're allowed to use the theory
in all exams wherever you go,
because we have a proof for that
based on the posthumous.
There is one U theory that we
use here. You already prove this
is true. Also you can use it
wherever you go or wherever you
want to use it. So any theory
that is proved by the
postulate, it is considered true, and then you can use it
later, like postulates.
Any questions so far?
Let me see the chat box.
So is this how you use my
favorite expensive gate?
I didn't understand your comments. My favorite exclusive
gate WAD. So.
Oh, sometimes I mean
explain that to me. I
could understand that.
OK, any questions so far.
So we have possibilities. We
have some theory that we prove
the theory by some by using
some possible dates and then
we are good to use them for
any other theories and etc. So
far we haven't used them for
simplification, will see that
very soon.
The next theory is about
quality, so before I explain
before I prove the theory for
duality, I have to explain
what is duality.
Duality means that.
If you are given a Boolean
expression F.
They do, all of it is simply
this changing any or with an.
And changing anyone with zero
and vice versa. So if you see
any or make it add. If you see
any and make it or.
Also, if you see one, make it 0.
If you see zero, make it 1.
So whenever you want to create
if you have something, just do
this exchange between the and and or Zero and one that's it.
One thing is that if you apply
the dual of F, it may or may not
be equal to F.
So they do a lot F.
Remember this, I'm not saying
that dual of F is equal to F,
I'm saying that.
Do all of F is operation on.
AF so I do all of this
expression may be or may not be
equal to F.
So this is just a transformation
on F. The result might be a
different totally different
equation or total different
expression. So this is the
dual of F. So why we want to
use the dual of something?
Why  is helpful?
Before that, let's do some
practice. For instance, if you
are given this expression, it
do. All of this. Is this so X?
Itself, one becomes 0
or. Becomes And
So again, in the next
example, the binary variables
are the same, so XX explore,
explore or becomes an.
And from this side also you can
go from this side to the left
side X&Y. Not is equal to why
the same acts the same and
becomes or and not the same. So
the only thing changes is the
end and or an zero and one.
So this is called a dual of each
term. As you can see here, the
dual sometimes is equal with
each other, but sometimes it's
not equal to each other.
For instance here.
This expression is not equal to
this expression. This expression
is always zero. This expression
is always one.
So they are not equal. That's
why we don't put equality sign
here. They are not equal,
remember that. So.
What's the benefit of duality?
One way one?
Amazing use of the duality
is for calculating the knot
of expression or complement
of expression.
Imagine you are given this
expression F is equal to A or
B&C. And you are asked to do the
not of this expression.
So in order to apply this, you
have to consider the whole
expression and apply not.
So then by De Morgans law you already know the de morgans law. So
you have to bring the not inside
the parentheses. If you bring
the inside the parenthesis the
this or becomes an.
And the variables becomes not so
a bar as you can see here, and
this one becomes born.
Also, you can't you have to
bring this not inside the
parentheses by the Morgans law
it becomes. Not goes on top of
each variable. The end this
times becomes 4.
So the not of this expression is A bar B bar or C bar
inside the pantheists. So you
can see that sometimes you have
to be very careful when you are
bringing the not inside the pan.
Theses. By the Morgans law you
have to apply them multiple
times. Sometimes it is very
tricky. But a very amazing way
to do that is this.
If you are asked to calculate
the not of the expression, you
have to count. Simply calculate
the dual of F.
Did one of F is a becomes
ABBC&C, so the variables are the
same and become or becomes an.
So this is or becomes an.
This is and becomes or.
So you make it 1 out of that and
then. Put the nuts on top of
each variable. So do all and
then put the nut on top of
each other, each variable.
You see that this
expression is very similar
to the previous one.
So this is an amazing use
of quality.
So let's. Make an example
which makes more sense.
Imagine you are given this
Boolean expression.
And you want to apply nuts on
top of the whole expression.
So this is the nuts on top
of the whole expression.
So you see that there are a
lot of parentheses here and
etc, so you have to bring
this parent is not inside the
whole parentheses.
When you do that, you know
it's very difficult, so you
have to be careful that you
can assume that this
parentheses is also
something.
In order to simplify the
expression and then bring it not
inside. So if you bring it
inside a becomes a. Barbie
becomes a big bar, the end
becomes or. Here the ants become
or. And then they not comes up
top of the parantheses.
This ends becomes or.
And then this knot comes over
the whole disparate pieces. As
you can see here.
This is. The whole practice is.
And then you bring this inside.
This parentheses by D. Morgan's
law and etc. So you see that
it's very complicated, you know.
At the end you have to bring
this inside this parentheses and
this parenthesis is this one.
Is outside this huge
parentheses. And it's it's
it's very complicated.
then easier way is this.
You had one of us, so the first
variable saying and become or.
EB this and becomes or see
the same or becomes and.
And then etc.
When you create the dual of the
app, so basically just the
changing the end with or or with
and that's it. And then you
apply did not on top of the
variables, Simply put.
Not on each variable, so not on
top of this. It makes it null.
Yes, also this one.
This is. This not not becomes
itself, not not, becomes itself,
and then not.
And this is the not of the first expression.
Isn't it amazing? That's the use
of the dual?
A theory.
So when you want to compliment a
Boolean expression, make it dual
and then put the knot on top of
each other instead of just
applying the D Morgan's law.
Nick asks, wouldn't there be
an or between the last two
large brackets?
Uh, you mean here?
Oh correct, yes yes, this ends
here. Should be or correct?
Thank you awesome.
Thank you yes, correct, that's a
mistake. I'll fix that. Thank
you Nick. Correct, yes.
Yeah.
And also here we have a or.
Another nice property of the
duality is this. We call this
duality theorem. Basically says
that if you prove any
theory for. Uh, a
Boolean equation. That's true
for the dual of that equation.
Also, if you have a postulate
for a Boolean expression.
You can have the same postulate
for do all of that, so that's
very amazing. So.
We already proved that X or one
is equal to 1.
If you're asked to prove this.
You could say that I already
proved this by the duality
theory. This is also true.
Without any proof.
So they do. All of this is X is
X1 becomes zero or becomes add.
In the right side one becomes 0.
So you could say that X and zero
is equal to 0.
So you don't have to prove this
by using the pass to let. You
could say that I already proved
this. It is true for the
dual of that.
Also, this one, for
instance this one.
We said that by the compliment
postulate anything or with it
with the complement is equal to
identity element of the Ant.
So if you calculate the dual of
that, it becomes X. The same,
explored the same or becomes
aunt and one becomes zero. This
is the complement property of
the end and of the two binary
variables are compliments of
each other. It is equal to
identity element of or.
So you see that that's true for
postulates. That's true for any
theory. And also for the D
Morgan's law, we said that we
have two laws for the Morgan,
but actually that's one law
because if you know one of the
laws. for applying the dual
You can come out, we can.
You can reach the second
law of the Morgan.
So that's another video of the
duality, so let's look at an
example. Imagine you are
given this theory and
you want to prove this.
So. If you look at closely
to this expression, you could
see that this expression is
actually did do all of this
expression. If you calculate the
dual of this expression X.
XY becomes X or Y
this or becomes an.
In the right side, X is the
same. So you see that we already
proved this one. The absorption
for this equation. And because
we prove this and the dual of
this expression is this, you
could say that by the dual
theory, this expression is true
because we have a proof for the
dual of that, and because they
do. All of that is true itself
is also true. This is the
absorption for and of the sum
Max terms. So you can see that
if there are some maxterms or of
the terms that they are all
ending with each other.
And if one of the binary
variables are repeating in
all of them.
We can absorb all of the
expressions through the
binary variable that is
repeated in all the terms.
So that's a another
video of the duality.
So now the question is this, how
can we use all these theories
postulates? The theories, the
duality, an ETC for our main
task we study all of these
topics for doing simplification.
So now I'm going to explain how
can we use the app and whenever
we use the Boolean algebra
theorems and postulates and the
duality and ETC for
minimization, you say that we
are algebraically minimize the
Boolean expression or circuit.
So let's have an example.
Imagine we end up with this a
Boolean function in our circuit.
So what is the meter for this?
Anybody?
That was the easy call too.
Is Sigma mid term? This is
the product of sums. Sorry
sum of products so need what
are the midterms?
The number for midterms anybody?
So what, what is the binary
number that makes this term 1?
So basically, if this is zero,
becomes one, this is zero,
becomes one, and then this is 1,
so 100 makes this term one. This
is the minterm
4.
Yes, Nick and Philip.
Correct, so this one is 111
which is mid term 7.
This is 1100, followed by the
not becomes one, so this is the
mid term. Six and this is
101, which is in turn 5.
So 4567.
Yes, Philip and Nick and Kaden
for the correct answer. So now
let's count how many.
Guess we need to design this
circuit. So we have one
midterm 234, so we need.
UH-4
and. Each one except three
inputs, so we need 4 and each
one has three inputs 123123.
And then finally we have them,
or so we have four midterms or
them together. So we need one or
gate. Which has four inputs.
So now we want to see how
can we simplify that to
in order to come up with
the less number circuit
and less number of gates.
So as you can see here, busy.
You can extract the Z based on
the distributive postulate.
And then. You can inside the
parentheses you can see that
there is a Y prime that is
repeated, so you can extract
this based on the
distributive property.
And then you can come up with
the complement postulate.
X or with a X bar  is equal to the identity element of and.
which is one and  anything and with one is equal to itself.
And then here you can see that.
Why is repeated? You can extract
Y and then you have compliment
property. Here it is equal to 1
and then end with one and then
another compliment property one
and NZ. You see that at the
end that this number of kids may
need 5 gates becomes no gate.
Basically, this function
is equal to Z. You don't
need any gate for that.
So although you have XY&Z in the
input of the circuit.
But the output only look at
the Z the the output of the
X&Y doesn't matter.
You could do another proof using
the absorption, you could say
that Z is repeated in all the
midterms. All of them can be
absorbed as E.
This is by the absorption
property.
And this is another example.
For instance, if this is
the Boolean expression,
this is the minterm 4.
This is minterm
Six and this is Mr One.
We need 3 ants.
Each one has three inputs and
then over them together. So we
need one or with three inputs.
So here you can see that Z and
explore is repeated so you can
extract them and then compliment
property. And then and with one.
So you end up with only one
and here 2 and here, so one
and two input one and three
input, and then order
together. So you need one or
two input, so it is much more
simpler than your original
design.
So.
Me. OK.
Imagine now we want to use the.
I mean the Boolean algebra to
simplify a design from the very
first. So we know that in a real
situation you are given a
problem. And then we have to
design A circuit for that. What
was the step we have to create
the truth table? We have to
decide whether we want to design
it based on the SOP or POS and
then based on those design that
have less number of kids, we
choose PEO S or SOP and then.
We want to use the Boolean
algebra to minimize it more.
So I want to explain that in
this example. So a design recap
from the very first.
So imagine we have this problem.
We are asked to write a
comparator. Computer is that we
give 2 numbers and the circuit
basically outputs one.
Or 10 underline or open the door
if the first input is greater or
equal than the second input.
This is the problem and we want
to design a second for that.
As I said, you have to explain
how many inputs you have, how
many output you have.
So first of all, you have to see
that what are the X&Y? What is
the range of the X&Y?
The question says that the
X&Y are between zero and
three in decimal system.
And we are going to design a
second in binary system. So we
have to convert the range to the
binary system. Any number
between zero and three. If you
change it to the binary system,
it is between 0001.
10 and then 11.
So you need two bids for X.
2 bit four why?
In total you need 4 bits, 12 M
4X12M4 Y in the input. So for
instance in the input you are
going to receive zero and one
4X. You are going to receive 11
for the Y an if X is greater
equal than why you had put one.
Otherwise we output 0. Here this
is 1. This is true. Outputs zero
in the F.
Because X is lower than Y.
So the output how many output
you need in this question is
simply says that if it is
greater or equal output one.
Otherwise, output Zero, so there's only two situations,
zero and one. So the number of
output gonna be just one bit.
And then you have to form the
truth table. Truth table has the
left side, all the inputs X.
And then why 2 numbers? Each one has two case and one output
zero and one. And then you have to fill out the whole table so the
left side, all the possibilities
for X&Y, so 0000123, so you have
4 pets, 2 to the power of four
becomes 16, so you have 16 rows
for each possibilities.
And then you have to check what
is going to be output, for
instance here. You have 0, one
in the first number, 01 in the
second number. 01 is
greater or equal than the
01, so you output one.
How is there for this case?
011 is X10 is Y, so X
is not getting recalled and why
you output 0?
And then you have to design it
by. So you have to fill out all
the rows of the outputs. As you
can see here. Then you have
to decide whether you did
designed by SOP&QS.
Why the SOP? You have to look at
those anteater next the output
one. So minterm 0 until one minterm 2 minterm three and then
here. This is the midterm.
5 meters, six with them. Seven.
As you can see here.
Open till here, this is Mr 6:15.
From zero 250.
Or you can look at those into
it. That makes the output zero
and write it by the PEO S.
So maxterm. This is the master.
Uh, three sorry 4.
This is the master.
8 annotators so you can see that
these are the maxims those
entries that makes the output 0.
Now you have to decide
which one do you choose.
So which one you choose?
Anybody?
Correct, Philip, because as
you can see here, the number
of maxterms or just one 23456 the number of minterms are
more than that. So the number
of kids you are going to use
in next terms or QoS is less.
So you decide this one.
So when you want to design, both
of them are correct or
effective. Both of them are with
the same speed because they have
two levels of gates.
But in terms of the
number of gates.
Uh, if you count them the number
of ends you need, the number or
the number of nuts if you want
to design it by now.
Only or not. Only how many
games you need in the SOP
If you calculate them, you end
up with this numbers.
In the Max time, you're gonna
have only 6. Or because you have
6 Max terms, but here you have
10 meters each one need an end.
So we can calculate the other number of gates, but just for
this you can see that the
maximum is better.
And you design it by Maxterms.
So here is the design. You can
have a look at home, very
similar to the previous designs.
But now the question is that.
What if I want to simplify this?
So you have to simplify
this expression.
This is not an easy task. You
know it's I mean, but it doesn't
have just one or two Max terms
it has. How many six weeks Max
terms and each Maxim says 4
binary variables.
So let's start.
So then base is this. You can
make it dual out of F.
Which becomes this?
And then try to simplify the
dual and at the end you bring it
back to the original form.
So let's simplify
the dual of that.
So here you can see that in
the second theater there is
some. There is some overlap.
You can extract this.
If you extract that, you can see
there is a complement form
appears, so it becomes one.
And then you can. You could ask
that. OK, I simplify that one
step, so I'll be done.
I could say that you can add this term again here because
by the. Theory X + X
is equal to X.
We can add the existing term
that already use. Simplify
that again. Why we do that?
Because it introduces another
simplification.
As you can see here.
And then another compliment for,
and then this one.
So you could ask me that are we
done now? I could say that.
I don't know. You can think more
and then try to simplify more.
So. That's the problem.
Of the algebraic minimalization
in the algebraic minimization,
although you can reduce the
number of kids.
Also, you have to bring
this back to. You have to
do another dual.
To bring it back to the
original simplification.
What you could say that Oh my
God, if I want to write this in
an exam or in a paper, look at
these nuts and look at these
numbers an etc. So you have to
be very careful when you write
these. That's the main problem
of the algebraically minimizing
circuit. First of all, you have
to be smart which password to
use and when questions here.
Somewhere I know that I have to
add this one, sorry.
How can I know that I have to
add this one to do more
simplification? So you
have to be a smart.
So.
If somebody I mean or not.
I mean that smart. How can
we do more simplification?
So it depends on the genius of
that person, which is not good.
Second of all, if the number of
parameters goes a lot, it's very
confusing. So basically there is
no algorithm for that.
And also this is very
important at the end of the
day you cannot say that I'm
confident that this is the
most simplified version of
this circuit.
That's very annoying because
after all these attempts
finally, you cannot say that
I'm person 100% sure that
this is minimized for.
And that's the.
A main purpose behind the second
point in the second approach.
There is an algorithm that.
A promise to minimize the
simple minimize the circuit
at best, and you always are
sure that at the end of the
algorithm your circuit is
the most simplified version.
This is proposed by karnaugh is we are going to explain this after
the reading week.
Uh, and uh?
He he's still alive. He's a
distinguished professor, but
when he was at Bell Labs in
1954, he proposed a new method
kind of algorithmic method to
simplify a circuit.
Uh, that is a huge benefit over
the. Algebraic Over all
these simplifications. So
indeed, this week lecture
assignment you are going to
simplify the circuit by Algebra,
Boolean algebra and you will see
that how hard it is to do that.
And after reading Week when I
explained the carnal map you can
see that wow how the kernel
makes our task easier. An based
on your hard experience on a
algebraic simplification. Now
you know how to use it, better
approach and how and appreciate
the corner method.
So basically that was all. Thank
you so much. We are five
minutes. Over a class. Sorry
bout that but I have to finish
that. So I'm ready to
take your questions if
there is any question.
By the way, I'm going to be in
the office hour at 11:30, so you
can go. You can come there, drop
by there and then.
Uh. If any issue or any concern,
I'm happy to take that.
No questions.
Jay
you too Jackson.
Have a great day all.
Thank you all for your
tenderness and thank you for
your feedback on the course.
And, uh.
You're welcome to Tetiana. Have a great day. Have a great day,
Zachary. Zach had a great day.
You too Ryan. You too have a
great reading week.
I hope you, uh, I mean, become
ready for the exam.
And also rest after this six
weeks are working and hard work.
Take some rest.
OK, so let
me.
Stop the recording.